PRPs/PRP-001.md, before:

# PRP-001: Infrastructure Cleanup & GitHub Container Registry Deployment

## ✅ STATUS: COMPLETE (v0.1.0 - 2025-10-28)

**Deployed to Production**: ✅ Yes
**Version**: 0.1.0+
**Last Updated**: 2025-10-29

### Production Status
- Docker Image: `ghcr.io/dcversus/dcmaidbot:0.3.0`
- Deployment: prod-core namespace (Kubernetes)
- CI/CD: GitHub Actions → GHCR → ArgoCD
- Tests: All infrastructure tests passing
- Health: `/health` endpoint responding (200 OK)

### Key Achievements
- ✅ Multi-stage Dockerfile (Python 3.13-slim)
- ✅ GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline
- ✅ GHCR deployment working
- ✅ Kubernetes deployment in prod-core
- ✅ ArgoCD GitOps sync
- ✅ Health & liveness probes configured
- ✅ Version management (version.txt → Docker tags)

## Description
Clean all Vercel-related files and references, setup GitHub Container Registry deployment pipeline based on https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline

## Requirements
- Remove all Vercel-related files (vercel.json, api/ directory, package.json, test_vercel_handler.py)
- Clean Vercel references from README.md and other documentation
- Remove Vercel references from services/pool_service.py
- Setup Dockerfile for containerization
- Setup GitHub Actions workflow for GitHub Container Registry
- Implement deployment configuration from https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline
- Ensure bot runs in Docker container locally
- **Redis deployment for caching** (LESSONS, memories, rate limiting, search cache)

## Definition of Ready (DOR)
- [x] All Vercel-related files identified
- [x] Current bot.py and core logic reviewed
- [ ] Access to https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline confirmed
- [ ] GitHub Container Registry access setup

## Definition of Done (DOD)
- [x] All Vercel-related files removed ✅ from repository
- [x] README.md updated ✅ without Vercel references
- [x] services/pool_service.py cleaned ✅ of Vercel references
- [x] Dockerfile created and working ✅
- [x] GitHub Actions workflow ✅ for GHCR deployment created
- [x] Bot successfully runs ✅ in Docker container locally
- [x] Unit tests pass ✅
- [x] Bot deployed and verified ✅ bot startup in Docker

## Progress
- [x] Remove vercel.json (not found, already clean)
- [x] Remove api/ directory (not found, already clean)
- [x] Remove package.json (not found, already clean)
- [x] Remove test_vercel_handler.py (not found, already clean)
- [x] Clean Vercel references from README.md
- [x] Clean Vercel references from services/pool_service.py (removed entire old pool service)
- [x] Research https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline deployment patterns
- [x] Create/update Dockerfile (multi-stage build)
- [x] Create .dockerignore
- [x] Create GitHub Actions workflow (.github/workflows/deploy.yml)
- [x] Update .env.example for new architecture
- [ ] Test Docker build locally (requires Docker daemon running)
- [ ] Test Docker run locally
- [ ] Write unit tests for deployment configuration
- [ ] Write E2E test for containerized bot startup

## Notes
- Keep bot.py, handlers/, middlewares/, models/, services/ intact
- Ensure .env.example is updated for Docker deployment
- Document deployment process in README.md
- Ensure GitHub Actions has secrets configured (BOT_TOKEN, etc.)

## Production Validation Checklist

**Run this checklist after each deployment to production:**

### Pre-Deployment Checks
- [ ] Docker image built successfully in CI
- [ ] Image pushed to GHCR (ghcr.io/dcversus/dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Image tagged with version from version.txt
- [ ] GitHub release created with changelog

### Deployment Checks
- [ ] ArgoCD shows deployment synced
- [ ] Pod is running (kubectl get pods -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Pod logs show bot started (kubectl logs -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] No error messages in pod logs

### Bot Functionality Checks
- [ ] Bot is online in Telegram (@dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Bot responds to /start command
- [ ] Bot environment variables loaded correctly

### Infrastructure Checks
- [ ] Service exists (kubectl get svc -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Ingress exists (kubectl get ingress -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] DNS resolves correctly
- [ ] HTTPS certificate valid

### Rollback Plan
- [ ] Previous version documented
- [ ] Rollback command ready: `kubectl rollout undo -n dcmaidbot`

**Result**: ✅ PASS / ❌ FAIL

---

## Agent Comments
### 2025-10-26
- Removed all Vercel references and old pool management code
- Created multi-stage Dockerfile for optimized production image
- Setup GitHub Actions deploy.yml based on uz0/core-pipeline patterns
- Deploy workflow builds multi-platform images (amd64, arm64) and pushes to GHCR
- Updated README.md with new architecture and deployment instructions
- Updated .env.example with required variables (BOT_TOKEN, ADMIN_IDS, DATABASE_URL, OPENAI_API_KEY)
- Docker build test pending (requires Docker daemon to be running on local machine)
- Ready for GitHub deployment once secrets are configured

### 2025-10-27 - Audit Results
**Gaps Found**: 2
1. Docker local testing not validated
2. Production deployment not validated with checklist

**Action Items**:
- Add Docker local test documentation
- Use production validation checklist above for next deployment

## Deployment Guide

### Quick Start (Kubernetes)

1. **Create namespace and secrets:**
```bash
kubectl create namespace dcmaidbot
kubectl create secret generic dcmaidbot-secrets \
  --namespace=dcmaidbot \
  --from-literal=bot-token='YOUR_BOT_TOKEN' \
  --from-literal=admin-ids='123456789,987654321' \
  --from-literal=database-url='postgresql://...' \
  --from-literal=openai-api-key='sk-...'
```

2. **Deploy via GitOps (Recommended):**
   - GitOps repository: https://github.com/uz0/core-charts
   - Chart location: `charts/dcmaidbot/`
   - ArgoCD automatically syncs and deploys

3. **Update version:**
```bash
# In uz0/core-charts repo
cd charts/dcmaidbot
echo 'image:
  tag: "0.2.0"' > prod.tag.yaml
git commit -am "Update dcmaidbot to v0.2.0"
git push
```

### Monitoring

```bash
# Check pod status
kubectl get pods -n dcmaidbot

# View logs
kubectl logs -n dcmaidbot -l app=dcmaidbot -f

# Restart bot
kubectl rollout restart deployment/dcmaidbot -n dcmaidbot
```

For detailed deployment instructions, see README.md "Deployment" section.

---

## Redis Deployment

### Purpose

Redis is required for:
- **LESSONS caching** (PRP-002): Admin-controlled prompts cached for fast access
- **Memory caching** (PRP-005-008): Simple/full content caching with TTL
- **Semantic search caching** (PRP-007): Vector search result caching
- **Rate limiting** (PRP-009): Tool usage rate limiting per user
- **Background processing** (PRP-008): Association task queue

### Kubernetes Deployment (Recommended)

**Using Bitnami Redis Helm Chart**:

```bash
# Add Bitnami repo
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update

# Install Redis in prod-core namespace
helm install redis bitnami/redis \
  --namespace prod-core \
  --set auth.enabled=true \
  --set auth.password="$(openssl rand -base64 32)" \
  --set master.persistence.enabled=true \
  --set master.persistence.size=8Gi \
  --set replica.replicaCount=1 \
  --set replica.persistence.enabled=true \
  --set replica.persistence.size=8Gi \
  --set metrics.enabled=true

# Get Redis password
export REDIS_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret --namespace prod-core redis -o jsonpath="{.data.redis-password}" | base64 -d)

# Update dcmaidbot secrets with Redis URL
kubectl create secret generic dcmaidbot-secrets -n prod-core \
  --from-literal=redis-url="redis://:${REDIS_PASSWORD}@redis-master.prod-core.svc.cluster.local:6379/0" \
  --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Docker Compose (Local Development)

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml
version: '3.8'

services:
  redis:
    image: redis:7-alpine
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
    command: redis-server --requirepass changeme
    volumes:
      - redis-data:/data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "redis-cli", "-a", "changeme", "ping"]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 5

  dcmaidbot:
    build: .
    depends_on:
      redis:
        condition: service_healthy
    environment:
      - BOT_TOKEN=${BOT_TOKEN}
      - ADMIN_IDS=${ADMIN_IDS}
      - DATABASE_URL=${DATABASE_URL}
      - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
      - REDIS_URL=redis://:changeme@redis:6379/0

volumes:
  redis-data:
```

### Environment Variable

```env
# .env
REDIS_URL=redis://:password@host:6379/0
```

### Code Integration

```python
# services/redis_client.py

from redis.asyncio import Redis
import os

_redis_client = None

async def get_redis_client() -> Redis:
    """Get or create Redis client."""
    global _redis_client

    if _redis_client is None:
        redis_url = os.getenv("REDIS_URL", "redis://localhost:6379/0")
        _redis_client = await Redis.from_url(
            redis_url,
            encoding="utf-8",
            decode_responses=True,
            max_connections=10
        )

    return _redis_client

async def close_redis_client():
    """Close Redis client."""
    global _redis_client
    if _redis_client:
        await _redis_client.close()
```

### Production Validation

- [ ] Redis pod running in prod-core namespace
- [ ] Redis master accessible: `redis-master.prod-core.svc.cluster.local:6379`
- [ ] Redis replica (optional) running
- [ ] Persistence enabled (8Gi volume)
- [ ] Password authentication working
- [ ] dcmaidbot can connect to Redis
- [ ] Caching working (verify in logs)
- [ ] Rate limiting working

### Redis Data Structure

```
# LESSONS (PRP-002)
lessons:active                    # List of active lesson IDs
lesson:{id}                       # Lesson content (JSON)

# Memory Cache (PRP-005)
memory:{id}:simple                # Simple content (TTL: 3600s)
memory:{id}:full                  # Full content (TTL: 1800s)
memory:category:{name}            # List of memory IDs (TTL: 600s)

# Semantic Search Cache (PRP-007)
search:{md5_hash}                 # Search results (TTL: 3600s)

# Rate Limiting (PRP-009)
ratelimit:web_search:{user_id}    # Request count (TTL: 60s)
ratelimit:curl_request:{user_id}  # Request count (TTL: 60s)

# Background Tasks (PRP-008)
association_queue                 # List of pending associations

# URL Allowlist (PRP-009)
tool:url_allowlist                # Set of allowed domains
```

### Monitoring

```bash
# Check Redis pod status
kubectl get pods -n prod-core -l app.kubernetes.io/name=redis

# Check Redis logs
kubectl logs -n prod-core -l app.kubernetes.io/name=redis -f

# Redis CLI access
kubectl exec -it redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD

# Monitor memory usage
kubectl exec -it redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD INFO memory

# Check key count
kubectl exec -it redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD DBSIZE
```

### Backup & Recovery

```bash
# Manual backup
kubectl exec redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD SAVE

# Copy backup file
kubectl cp prod-core/redis-master-0:/data/dump.rdb ./redis-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).rdb

# Restore from backup
kubectl cp ./redis-backup-20251027.rdb prod-core/redis-master-0:/data/dump.rdb
kubectl delete pod redis-master-0 -n prod-core  # Pod will restart and load backup
```

---

## 2025-10-27 - Webhook Domain Setup Required

**Status**: ⚠️ BLOCKED - Requires Cloudflare DNS Configuration

### Current Infrastructure State

**Kubernetes Resources** (prod-core namespace):
- ✅ **Ingress**: dcmaidbot-prod configured
  - Host: dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org
  - Path: /webhook
  - Load Balancer IP: 46.62.223.198
  - TLS Secret: dcmaidbot-tls
  - cert-manager issuer: letsencrypt-prod
- ✅ **Service**: dcmaidbot-prod on port 8080
- ✅ **Deployment**: dcmaidbot-prod with Python 3.13
- ❌ **DNS**: NOT configured (NXDOMAIN)
- ❌ **Certificate**: Pending (waiting for DNS)

### Problem

The bot is currently using **polling mode** because webhook mode requires:
1. Valid DNS record pointing to the Kubernetes ingress
2. Valid TLS certificate from Let's Encrypt
3. Telegram webhook configuration

Without DNS, cert-manager cannot complete the ACME challenge to issue the certificate.

### Solution

**Required Action**: Add Cloudflare DNS A record

**DNS Record Configuration**:
```
Type: A
Name: dcmaidbot (or dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org)
Content: 46.62.223.198
TTL: Auto
Proxy: Enabled (orange cloud)
```

**Cloudflare API Method**:
```bash
# Step 1: Get Zone ID for theedgestory.org
curl -X GET "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones?name=theedgestory.org" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"

# Step 2: Create DNS Record
curl -X POST "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/$ZONE_ID/dns_records" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{
    "type": "A",
    "name": "dcmaidbot",
    "content": "46.62.223.198",
    "ttl": 1,
    "proxied": true
  }'
```

**Manual Method**:
1. Log into Cloudflare dashboard
2. Navigate to theedgestory.org DNS settings
3. Add A record: `dcmaidbot` → `46.62.223.198`
4. Enable Cloudflare proxy (orange cloud icon)
5. Save

### After DNS is Configured

The system will automatically complete the following within ~10 minutes:

1. **DNS Propagation** (1-5 minutes)
   ```bash
   nslookup dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org
   # Should return Cloudflare proxy IPs
   ```

2. **Certificate Issuance** (2-5 minutes)
   - cert-manager detects DNS is valid
   - Initiates ACME HTTP-01 challenge with Let's Encrypt
   - Certificate issued and stored in `dcmaidbot-tls` secret

   **Monitor**:
   ```bash
   kubectl get certificate dcmaidbot-tls -n prod-core
   kubectl describe certificate dcmaidbot-tls -n prod-core
   ```

3. **Enable Webhook Mode**
   ```bash
   # Update webhook mode to true
   kubectl create secret generic dcmaidbot-secrets -n prod-core \
     --from-literal=webhook-mode=true \
     --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -

   # Restart pods
   kubectl delete pod -n prod-core -l app=dcmaidbot
   ```

4. **Configure Telegram Webhook**
   ```bash
   BOT_TOKEN="7524722046:AAEUsMxzntqDhUjSP5yW6iOtLzlZRRV2VSc"
   curl -X POST "https://api.telegram.org/bot${BOT_TOKEN}/setWebhook" \
     -d "url=https://dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org/webhook" \
     -d "secret_token=dcmaidbot-webhook-secret-2025"
   ```

5. **Verify Webhook**
   ```bash
   # Test HTTPS endpoint
   curl -I https://dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org/webhook

   # Check Telegram webhook status
   curl "https://api.telegram.org/bot${BOT_TOKEN}/getWebhookInfo"
   ```

### Benefits of Webhook Mode

**Current (Polling)**:
- Bot makes continuous requests to Telegram API
- Higher latency (~1-2 seconds)
- More resource intensive
- Single instance only (conflicts with multiple pods)

**With Webhook**:
- Telegram pushes updates instantly to bot
- Lower latency (<100ms)
- Less resource usage
- Supports multiple instances (canary deployments)
- More production-ready

### Reference

**Existing Domain Pattern**: core-pipeline.theedgestory.org
- DNS resolves to Cloudflare proxy IPs: 104.21.43.176, 172.67.182.164
- Uses same Cloudflare account and zone
- Successfully configured with cert-manager

**Related Files**:
- Dockerfile: webhook mode support (line 40)
- bot_webhook.py: aiohttp webhook server
- Ingress YAML: already configured in uz0/core-charts

### Next Steps

1. **Immediate**: Add Cloudflare DNS A record (manual or API)
2. **Wait**: 10 minutes for DNS + certificate
3. **Enable**: Switch bot to webhook mode
4. **Test**: Verify Telegram webhook working
5. **Monitor**: Check bot logs for webhook requests

---

## Historical Deployment Issues & Fixes (Oct 27, 2025)

### Critical Issues Discovered

During initial production deployment, three critical issues were identified:

**Issue #1: Telegram API Conflict** ✅ RESOLVED
- **Problem**: Both `dcmaidbot-prod` and `dcmaidbot-prod-canary` running simultaneously with same BOT_TOKEN in polling mode
- **Impact**: 6400+ conflict errors, bot missing messages
- **Solution**: `kubectl scale deployment dcmaidbot-prod-canary -n prod-core --replicas=0`
- **Result**: Conflicts resolved, bot receiving messages reliably

**Issue #2: GitHub Actions Deploy Workflow** ✅ RESOLVED
- **Problem**: All deploy workflow runs failing with "Resource not accessible by integration"
- **Root Cause**: Missing `deployments: write` permission
- **Solution**: Added `deployments: write` to `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` permissions
- **Commit**: `0e29153` - "fix: add deployments:write permission to deploy workflow"

**Issue #3: Dev Environment CrashLoopBackOff** ⚠️ DOCUMENTED
- **Problem**: Dev pod crashing with `TokenValidationError: Token is invalid!`
- **Root Cause**: BOT_TOKEN secret has 25 characters (invalid, should be 46)
- **Status**: Needs secrets management access (ArgoCD auto-sync prevents kubectl fixes)
- **Recommendation**: Create separate dev bot token or disable dev environment

### Lessons Learned

1. **Polling Mode Conflicts**: Only one instance can use polling mode per bot token
2. **GitHub Actions Permissions**: Always verify workflow permissions before deployment
3. **ArgoCD Auto-Sync**: Prevents manual kubectl fixes, requires GitOps changes
4. **Validation Checklists**: Critical for catching issues early in deployment process
5. **Canary Deployments**: Require webhook mode, not polling mode

### Monitoring Recommendations

- Alert on Telegram API conflicts (high retry count)
- Alert on deployment failures
- Monitor pod crash loops
- Add `/health` and `/metrics` endpoints
- Document troubleshooting guides for common issues

---

### 🎉 AGA VERIFICATION COMPLETE - November 1, 2025

**[AGA-VERIFIED]** PRP-001 infrastructure is fully operational in production

**Production Validation Results:**
✅ **Health Endpoint**: `https://dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org/health` returns `{"status": "healthy", "checks": {"bot": "ok", "database": "ok", "redis": "ok"}}`
✅ **Landing Page**: Full kawaii design loading correctly with all widgets
✅ **Docker Deployment**: Running on `ghcr.io/dcversus/dcmaidbot:latest` in production Kubernetes
✅ **CI/CD Pipeline**: GitHub Actions → GHCR → ArgoCD workflow confirmed working
✅ **Database Connection**: PostgreSQL connection pooling operational
✅ **Service Architecture**: aiohttp webhook server with proper health checks

**Test Coverage:**
- ✅ 9 unit tests for models passing
- ✅ Database migrations tested (9 migrations applied successfully)
- ✅ Production endpoints responding correctly
- ✅ Real-time health monitoring working

**Performance Metrics:**
- Health endpoint response: <100ms
- Database connections: Pool size 10, max overflow 20
- Landing page load: ~2-3 seconds with full CSS

**Infrastructure Status**: 🟢 **PRODUCTION READY**

PRP-001 provides solid foundation for all subsequent PRPs with reliable database connectivity, containerized deployment, and comprehensive monitoring.

Commit message:

feat: Comprehensive PRP assessment and foundation implementation
Major accomplishments:
- Critical reassessment of 8 PRPs with honest status reporting
- Fixed massive paperover issue (0% vs claimed 60%+ completion)
- Implemented working foundations for all PRPs:
  * PRP-006: Basic RAGService structure with ChromaDB
  * PRP-008: Admin commands with /admin_status working
  * PRP-009: External tools integration with /web_search
  * PRP-010: cron_service integrated and starting
  * PRP-012: Metrics service with /metrics endpoint
  * PRP-013: E2E testing framework foundation
  * PRP-016: World generation with terrain system
  * PRP-019: Friend system with database models

Code quality improvements:
- Fixed all ruff linting errors (unused vars, missing imports)
- Applied ruff formatting to all files
- Core unit tests passing (13/13)
- Added proper logging and error handling

Status: Each PRP now has 10-50% real, measurable progress
[da] All code quality checks passed
[dp] Foundation implementation complete

PRPs/PRP-001.md, after:

# PRP-001: Infrastructure Cleanup & GitHub Container Registry Deployment

## ✅ STATUS: COMPLETE (v0.1.0 - 2025-10-28)

**Deployed to Production**: ✅ Yes
**Version**: 0.1.0+
**Last Updated**: 2025-10-29

### Production Status
- Docker Image: `ghcr.io/dcversus/dcmaidbot:0.3.0`
- Deployment: prod-core namespace (Kubernetes)
- CI/CD: GitHub Actions → GHCR → ArgoCD
- Tests: All infrastructure tests passing
- Health: `/health` endpoint responding (200 OK)

### Key Achievements
- ✅ Multi-stage Dockerfile (Python 3.13-slim)
- ✅ GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline
- ✅ GHCR deployment working
- ✅ Kubernetes deployment in prod-core
- ✅ ArgoCD GitOps sync
- ✅ Health & liveness probes configured
- ✅ Version management (version.txt → Docker tags)

## progress
signal | comment | time | role-name (model name)
[oa] Orchestrator coordination - Parallel agent execution initiated for comprehensive PRP verification and implementation. Working on core infrastructure analysis with measurable goals and local instance validation. Infrastructure deployed to production with GHCR registry, Docker multi-stage builds, and Kubernetes deployment operational. | 2025-11-03 20:30 | Robo-System-Analyst (Sonnet 4.5)

## Description
Clean all Vercel-related files and references, setup GitHub Container Registry deployment pipeline based on https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline

## Requirements
- Remove all Vercel-related files (vercel.json, api/ directory, package.json, test_vercel_handler.py)
- Clean Vercel references from README.md and other documentation
- Remove Vercel references from services/pool_service.py
- Setup Dockerfile for containerization
- Setup GitHub Actions workflow for GitHub Container Registry
- Implement deployment configuration from https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline
- Ensure bot runs in Docker container locally
- **Redis deployment for caching** (LESSONS, memories, rate limiting, search cache)

## Definition of Ready (DOR)
- [x] All Vercel-related files identified
- [x] Current bot.py and core logic reviewed
- [ ] Access to https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline confirmed
- [ ] GitHub Container Registry access setup

## Definition of Done (DOD)
- [x] All Vercel-related files removed ✅ from repository
- [x] README.md updated ✅ without Vercel references
- [x] services/pool_service.py cleaned ✅ of Vercel references
- [x] Dockerfile created and working ✅
- [x] GitHub Actions workflow ✅ for GHCR deployment created
- [x] Bot successfully runs ✅ in Docker container locally
- [x] Unit tests pass ✅
- [x] Bot deployed and verified ✅ bot startup in Docker

## Progress
- [x] Remove vercel.json (not found, already clean)
- [x] Remove api/ directory (not found, already clean)
- [x] Remove package.json (not found, already clean)
- [x] Remove test_vercel_handler.py (not found, already clean)
- [x] Clean Vercel references from README.md
- [x] Clean Vercel references from services/pool_service.py (removed entire old pool service)
- [x] Research https://github.com/uz0/core-pipeline deployment patterns
- [x] Create/update Dockerfile (multi-stage build)
- [x] Create .dockerignore
- [x] Create GitHub Actions workflow (.github/workflows/deploy.yml)
- [x] Update .env.example for new architecture
- [ ] Test Docker build locally (requires Docker daemon running)
- [ ] Test Docker run locally
- [ ] Write unit tests for deployment configuration
- [ ] Write E2E test for containerized bot startup

## Notes
- Keep bot.py, handlers/, middlewares/, models/, services/ intact
- Ensure .env.example is updated for Docker deployment
- Document deployment process in README.md
- Ensure GitHub Actions has secrets configured (BOT_TOKEN, etc.)

## Production Validation Checklist

**Run this checklist after each deployment to production:**

### Pre-Deployment Checks
- [ ] Docker image built successfully in CI
- [ ] Image pushed to GHCR (ghcr.io/dcversus/dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Image tagged with version from version.txt
- [ ] GitHub release created with changelog

### Deployment Checks
- [ ] ArgoCD shows deployment synced
- [ ] Pod is running (kubectl get pods -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Pod logs show bot started (kubectl logs -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] No error messages in pod logs

### Bot Functionality Checks
- [ ] Bot is online in Telegram (@dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Bot responds to /start command
- [ ] Bot environment variables loaded correctly

### Infrastructure Checks
- [ ] Service exists (kubectl get svc -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] Ingress exists (kubectl get ingress -n dcmaidbot)
- [ ] DNS resolves correctly
- [ ] HTTPS certificate valid

### Rollback Plan
- [ ] Previous version documented
- [ ] Rollback command ready: `kubectl rollout undo -n dcmaidbot`

**Result**: ✅ PASS / ❌ FAIL

---

## Agent Comments
### 2025-10-26
- Removed all Vercel references and old pool management code
- Created multi-stage Dockerfile for optimized production image
- Setup GitHub Actions deploy.yml based on uz0/core-pipeline patterns
- Deploy workflow builds multi-platform images (amd64, arm64) and pushes to GHCR
- Updated README.md with new architecture and deployment instructions
- Updated .env.example with required variables (BOT_TOKEN, ADMIN_IDS, DATABASE_URL, OPENAI_API_KEY)
- Docker build test pending (requires Docker daemon to be running on local machine)
- Ready for GitHub deployment once secrets are configured

### 2025-10-27 - Audit Results
**Gaps Found**: 2
1. Docker local testing not validated
2. Production deployment not validated with checklist

**Action Items**:
- Add Docker local test documentation
- Use production validation checklist above for next deployment

## Deployment Guide

### Quick Start (Kubernetes)

1. **Create namespace and secrets:**
```bash
kubectl create namespace dcmaidbot
kubectl create secret generic dcmaidbot-secrets \
  --namespace=dcmaidbot \
  --from-literal=bot-token='YOUR_BOT_TOKEN' \
  --from-literal=admin-ids='123456789,987654321' \
  --from-literal=database-url='postgresql://...' \
  --from-literal=openai-api-key='sk-...'
```

2. **Deploy via GitOps (Recommended):**
   - GitOps repository: https://github.com/uz0/core-charts
   - Chart location: `charts/dcmaidbot/`
   - ArgoCD automatically syncs and deploys

3. **Update version:**
```bash
# In uz0/core-charts repo
cd charts/dcmaidbot
echo 'image:
  tag: "0.2.0"' > prod.tag.yaml
git commit -am "Update dcmaidbot to v0.2.0"
git push
```

### Monitoring

```bash
# Check pod status
kubectl get pods -n dcmaidbot

# View logs
kubectl logs -n dcmaidbot -l app=dcmaidbot -f

# Restart bot
kubectl rollout restart deployment/dcmaidbot -n dcmaidbot
```

For detailed deployment instructions, see README.md "Deployment" section.

---

## Redis Deployment

### Purpose

Redis is required for:
- **LESSONS caching** (PRP-002): Admin-controlled prompts cached for fast access
- **Memory caching** (PRP-005-008): Simple/full content caching with TTL
- **Semantic search caching** (PRP-007): Vector search result caching
- **Rate limiting** (PRP-009): Tool usage rate limiting per user
- **Background processing** (PRP-008): Association task queue

### Kubernetes Deployment (Recommended)

**Using Bitnami Redis Helm Chart**:

```bash
# Add Bitnami repo
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update

# Install Redis in prod-core namespace
helm install redis bitnami/redis \
  --namespace prod-core \
  --set auth.enabled=true \
  --set auth.password="$(openssl rand -base64 32)" \
  --set master.persistence.enabled=true \
  --set master.persistence.size=8Gi \
  --set replica.replicaCount=1 \
  --set replica.persistence.enabled=true \
  --set replica.persistence.size=8Gi \
  --set metrics.enabled=true

# Get Redis password
export REDIS_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret --namespace prod-core redis -o jsonpath="{.data.redis-password}" | base64 -d)

# Update dcmaidbot secrets with Redis URL
kubectl create secret generic dcmaidbot-secrets -n prod-core \
  --from-literal=redis-url="redis://:${REDIS_PASSWORD}@redis-master.prod-core.svc.cluster.local:6379/0" \
  --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Docker Compose (Local Development)

```yaml
# docker-compose.yml
version: '3.8'

services:
  redis:
    image: redis:7-alpine
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
    command: redis-server --requirepass changeme
    volumes:
      - redis-data:/data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "redis-cli", "-a", "changeme", "ping"]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 5

  dcmaidbot:
    build: .
    depends_on:
      redis:
        condition: service_healthy
    environment:
      - BOT_TOKEN=${BOT_TOKEN}
      - ADMIN_IDS=${ADMIN_IDS}
      - DATABASE_URL=${DATABASE_URL}
      - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
      - REDIS_URL=redis://:changeme@redis:6379/0

volumes:
  redis-data:
```

### Environment Variable

```env
# .env
REDIS_URL=redis://:password@host:6379/0
```

### Code Integration

```python
# services/redis_client.py

from redis.asyncio import Redis
import os

_redis_client = None

async def get_redis_client() -> Redis:
    """Get or create Redis client."""
    global _redis_client

    if _redis_client is None:
        redis_url = os.getenv("REDIS_URL", "redis://localhost:6379/0")
        _redis_client = await Redis.from_url(
            redis_url,
            encoding="utf-8",
            decode_responses=True,
            max_connections=10
        )

    return _redis_client

async def close_redis_client():
    """Close Redis client."""
    global _redis_client
    if _redis_client:
        await _redis_client.close()
```

### Production Validation

- [ ] Redis pod running in prod-core namespace
- [ ] Redis master accessible: `redis-master.prod-core.svc.cluster.local:6379`
- [ ] Redis replica (optional) running
- [ ] Persistence enabled (8Gi volume)
- [ ] Password authentication working
- [ ] dcmaidbot can connect to Redis
- [ ] Caching working (verify in logs)
- [ ] Rate limiting working

### Redis Data Structure

```
# LESSONS (PRP-002)
lessons:active                    # List of active lesson IDs
lesson:{id}                       # Lesson content (JSON)

# Memory Cache (PRP-005)
memory:{id}:simple                # Simple content (TTL: 3600s)
memory:{id}:full                  # Full content (TTL: 1800s)
memory:category:{name}            # List of memory IDs (TTL: 600s)

# Semantic Search Cache (PRP-007)
search:{md5_hash}                 # Search results (TTL: 3600s)

# Rate Limiting (PRP-009)
ratelimit:web_search:{user_id}    # Request count (TTL: 60s)
ratelimit:curl_request:{user_id}  # Request count (TTL: 60s)

# Background Tasks (PRP-008)
association_queue                 # List of pending associations

# URL Allowlist (PRP-009)
tool:url_allowlist                # Set of allowed domains
```

### Monitoring

```bash
# Check Redis pod status
kubectl get pods -n prod-core -l app.kubernetes.io/name=redis

# Check Redis logs
kubectl logs -n prod-core -l app.kubernetes.io/name=redis -f

# Redis CLI access
kubectl exec -it redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD

# Monitor memory usage
kubectl exec -it redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD INFO memory

# Check key count
kubectl exec -it redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD DBSIZE
```

### Backup & Recovery

```bash
# Manual backup
kubectl exec redis-master-0 -n prod-core -- redis-cli -a $REDIS_PASSWORD SAVE

# Copy backup file
kubectl cp prod-core/redis-master-0:/data/dump.rdb ./redis-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).rdb

# Restore from backup
kubectl cp ./redis-backup-20251027.rdb prod-core/redis-master-0:/data/dump.rdb
kubectl delete pod redis-master-0 -n prod-core  # Pod will restart and load backup
```

---

## 2025-10-27 - Webhook Domain Setup Required

**Status**: ⚠️ BLOCKED - Requires Cloudflare DNS Configuration

### Current Infrastructure State

**Kubernetes Resources** (prod-core namespace):
- ✅ **Ingress**: dcmaidbot-prod configured
  - Host: dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org
  - Path: /webhook
  - Load Balancer IP: 46.62.223.198
  - TLS Secret: dcmaidbot-tls
  - cert-manager issuer: letsencrypt-prod
- ✅ **Service**: dcmaidbot-prod on port 8080
- ✅ **Deployment**: dcmaidbot-prod with Python 3.13
- ❌ **DNS**: NOT configured (NXDOMAIN)
- ❌ **Certificate**: Pending (waiting for DNS)

### Problem

The bot is currently using **polling mode** because webhook mode requires:
1. Valid DNS record pointing to the Kubernetes ingress
2. Valid TLS certificate from Let's Encrypt
3. Telegram webhook configuration

Without DNS, cert-manager cannot complete the ACME challenge to issue the certificate.

### Solution

**Required Action**: Add Cloudflare DNS A record

**DNS Record Configuration**:
```
Type: A
Name: dcmaidbot (or dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org)
Content: 46.62.223.198
TTL: Auto
Proxy: Enabled (orange cloud)
```

**Cloudflare API Method**:
```bash
# Step 1: Get Zone ID for theedgestory.org
curl -X GET "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones?name=theedgestory.org" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json"

# Step 2: Create DNS Record
curl -X POST "https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/$ZONE_ID/dns_records" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{
    "type": "A",
    "name": "dcmaidbot",
    "content": "46.62.223.198",
    "ttl": 1,
    "proxied": true
  }'
```

**Manual Method**:
1. Log into Cloudflare dashboard
2. Navigate to theedgestory.org DNS settings
3. Add A record: `dcmaidbot` → `46.62.223.198`
4. Enable Cloudflare proxy (orange cloud icon)
5. Save

### After DNS is Configured

The system will automatically complete the following within ~10 minutes:

1. **DNS Propagation** (1-5 minutes)
   ```bash
   nslookup dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org
   # Should return Cloudflare proxy IPs
   ```

2. **Certificate Issuance** (2-5 minutes)
   - cert-manager detects DNS is valid
   - Initiates ACME HTTP-01 challenge with Let's Encrypt
   - Certificate issued and stored in `dcmaidbot-tls` secret

   **Monitor**:
   ```bash
   kubectl get certificate dcmaidbot-tls -n prod-core
   kubectl describe certificate dcmaidbot-tls -n prod-core
   ```

3. **Enable Webhook Mode**
   ```bash
   # Update webhook mode to true
   kubectl create secret generic dcmaidbot-secrets -n prod-core \
     --from-literal=webhook-mode=true \
     --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -

   # Restart pods
   kubectl delete pod -n prod-core -l app=dcmaidbot
   ```

4. **Configure Telegram Webhook**
   ```bash
   BOT_TOKEN="7524722046:AAEUsMxzntqDhUjSP5yW6iOtLzlZRRV2VSc"
   curl -X POST "https://api.telegram.org/bot${BOT_TOKEN}/setWebhook" \
     -d "url=https://dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org/webhook" \
     -d "secret_token=dcmaidbot-webhook-secret-2025"
   ```

5. **Verify Webhook**
   ```bash
   # Test HTTPS endpoint
   curl -I https://dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org/webhook

   # Check Telegram webhook status
   curl "https://api.telegram.org/bot${BOT_TOKEN}/getWebhookInfo"
   ```

### Benefits of Webhook Mode

**Current (Polling)**:
- Bot makes continuous requests to Telegram API
- Higher latency (~1-2 seconds)
- More resource intensive
- Single instance only (conflicts with multiple pods)

**With Webhook**:
- Telegram pushes updates instantly to bot
- Lower latency (<100ms)
- Less resource usage
- Supports multiple instances (canary deployments)
- More production-ready

### Reference

**Existing Domain Pattern**: core-pipeline.theedgestory.org
- DNS resolves to Cloudflare proxy IPs: 104.21.43.176, 172.67.182.164
- Uses same Cloudflare account and zone
- Successfully configured with cert-manager

**Related Files**:
- Dockerfile: webhook mode support (line 40)
- bot_webhook.py: aiohttp webhook server
- Ingress YAML: already configured in uz0/core-charts

### Next Steps

1. **Immediate**: Add Cloudflare DNS A record (manual or API)
2. **Wait**: 10 minutes for DNS + certificate
3. **Enable**: Switch bot to webhook mode
4. **Test**: Verify Telegram webhook working
5. **Monitor**: Check bot logs for webhook requests

---

## Historical Deployment Issues & Fixes (Oct 27, 2025)

### Critical Issues Discovered

During initial production deployment, three critical issues were identified:

**Issue #1: Telegram API Conflict** ✅ RESOLVED
- **Problem**: Both `dcmaidbot-prod` and `dcmaidbot-prod-canary` running simultaneously with same BOT_TOKEN in polling mode
- **Impact**: 6400+ conflict errors, bot missing messages
- **Solution**: `kubectl scale deployment dcmaidbot-prod-canary -n prod-core --replicas=0`
- **Result**: Conflicts resolved, bot receiving messages reliably

**Issue #2: GitHub Actions Deploy Workflow** ✅ RESOLVED
- **Problem**: All deploy workflow runs failing with "Resource not accessible by integration"
- **Root Cause**: Missing `deployments: write` permission
- **Solution**: Added `deployments: write` to `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` permissions
- **Commit**: `0e29153` - "fix: add deployments:write permission to deploy workflow"

**Issue #3: Dev Environment CrashLoopBackOff** ⚠️ DOCUMENTED
- **Problem**: Dev pod crashing with `TokenValidationError: Token is invalid!`
- **Root Cause**: BOT_TOKEN secret has 25 characters (invalid, should be 46)
- **Status**: Needs secrets management access (ArgoCD auto-sync prevents kubectl fixes)
- **Recommendation**: Create separate dev bot token or disable dev environment

### Lessons Learned

1. **Polling Mode Conflicts**: Only one instance can use polling mode per bot token
2. **GitHub Actions Permissions**: Always verify workflow permissions before deployment
3. **ArgoCD Auto-Sync**: Prevents manual kubectl fixes, requires GitOps changes
4. **Validation Checklists**: Critical for catching issues early in deployment process
5. **Canary Deployments**: Require webhook mode, not polling mode

### Monitoring Recommendations

- Alert on Telegram API conflicts (high retry count)
- Alert on deployment failures
- Monitor pod crash loops
- Add `/health` and `/metrics` endpoints
- Document troubleshooting guides for common issues

---

### 🎉 AGA VERIFICATION COMPLETE - November 1, 2025

**[AGA-VERIFIED]** PRP-001 infrastructure is fully operational in production

**Production Validation Results:**
✅ **Health Endpoint**: `https://dcmaidbot.theedgestory.org/health` returns `{"status": "healthy", "checks": {"bot": "ok", "database": "ok", "redis": "ok"}}`
✅ **Landing Page**: Full kawaii design loading correctly with all widgets
✅ **Docker Deployment**: Running on `ghcr.io/dcversus/dcmaidbot:latest` in production Kubernetes
✅ **CI/CD Pipeline**: GitHub Actions → GHCR → ArgoCD workflow confirmed working
✅ **Database Connection**: PostgreSQL connection pooling operational
✅ **Service Architecture**: aiohttp webhook server with proper health checks

**Test Coverage:**
- ✅ 9 unit tests for models passing
- ✅ Database migrations tested (9 migrations applied successfully)
- ✅ Production endpoints responding correctly
- ✅ Real-time health monitoring working

**Performance Metrics:**
- Health endpoint response: <100ms
- Database connections: Pool size 10, max overflow 20
- Landing page load: ~2-3 seconds with full CSS

**Infrastructure Status**: 🟢 **PRODUCTION READY**

PRP-001 provides solid foundation for all subsequent PRPs with reliable database connectivity, containerized deployment, and comprehensive monitoring.
